now a young Israeli man has been jailed
for refusing mandatory service in
protest against the war in Gaza military
service is compulsory for most Jewish
Israelis and in the country's highly
militarized Society those who refuse
risk being labeled as traitors Laura
Khan reports from occupied East
Jerusalem violence won't solve violence
these are the words of Tel mitnik an
18-year-old from Tel Aviv who is
believed to be the first person to
refuse his military service in protests
against the war in
Gaza I'm in t hash military base and I'm
refusing to enlist I refuse to be part
of the war in Gaza I believe Slaughter
will not solve
Slaughter he left to serve 30 days in
prison instead cheered on by a small but
vocal crowd so who can be called up for
service well Israeli Jews but also
minority Drews and cakan communities are
conscripted at at the age of 18 men for
32 months and women for 24 in the case
of a national emergency or War most can
be recall in as reservists and they can
be up to the age of 40 or even above
150,000 people are in active service and
360,000 reservists were CAU up for the
war in Gaza making it Israel's largest
mobilization refusing conscription is a
criminal offense in Israel and can lead
to weeks in prison and a criminal record
right groups say the military officer
often issues a punishment immediately
once they're released from jail they
then CAU up for service again and this
sentenc process can happen many times
leading to the person spending time in
and out of jail Laura Khan Al jazer
occupied East
Jerusalem well let's bring in now Sophie
or Sophie is supposed to enlist in the
Israeli Army but is refusing to do so
she joins us from from parades Hannah in
Israel good to have you with us so first
of all let me ask you why did you take
the decision that to refuse to
enlist well I made the decision to
refuse Before the War I made that
decision because I refused to take part
in the idf's violent policies of
Oppression and apartheid and to be part
of this endless cycle of Bloodshed I
choose to refuse because there is no
military solution to a political problem
and now with the war that has become
more apparent than ever and so my
refusal is more important to me than
ever and I choose to refuse in a very
public way in hope to reach the Israeli
Society especially young people to show
them that refusing is an option and that
peace is an option the only option
because there are seven million
Palestinians here and seven million
Israeli Jews here and no one is going
anywhere are you worried about how
receptive the public will be to your
message given the militarization of
society given the push to the right
that's going
on H indeed Israeli Society is an
extremely militaristic one and refusing
is absolutely not an accepted thing and
I am called The Traitor a self-hating
Jew I get wishes for me to be raped or
killed and since the war started it has
gotten Wars there has been a shift to
the right and the right was already
strong and there also was in a
repression of activists in the radical
left
especially Palestinians with Israeli
citizenship but also Israeli Jews so I
am worried but it's worth it because
even if only one person is going to hear
my words and they will make them think
then it's worth it and I'm willing to
endure the consequences of
that given everything you've just said
and the sort of calls that you're facing
it must take a lot of conviction to take
the position you've
taken How concerned are you about the
prospect of facing almost an endless
cycle of Court appearances and jail
terms right that's what you could be
looking
at H I am concerned of course it's a
scary
experience H but I do have the support
of the MV Network which also supports
mnik that was just sent to
prison and they accompany us on this
process and it does help a lot but of
course it's scary and we I don't know
how much time and it can be different
now with the war because the political
sphere in Israel has changed and gone in
a dramatic shift H to the
right but as I said before I'm concerned
but it is worth it and I stand with my
decisions and my morals all the
way well since your decision of course
that a war has
started and there have been
reports by multiple isra as well as
international human rights groups in
statements by un experts 36 in facts on
November the 16th talking about a
genocide in the making going on as that
stren ened your resolve that this is not
something you want to be associated with
and how is how is that playing out with
others and definitely for me the war has
only made my decision I made me more
sure in my
decision and the war in Gaza is horrible
it causes horrible destruction and death
and it can never be justified the same
way that the massacre on October 7th can
never be justified and it's unrelenting
and it leads us
nowhere but in to most people in
Israel the war changed them in the
opposite direction and there has been a
shift to the right and young people in
Israel in general in contrast to the
rest of the world tend to be more
right-wing so it hasn't really made
other people not want to associate
themselves with it and it's why I want
to refuse to show them that there are
reasons to not want to be associated
with the IDF and with that
war Sophie how much of the war do
Israelis actually see how much of the
civilian suffering do they
see I think that Israelis know the least
about what's going on in Gaza in the
entire world
the media in Israel does not show uh the
civilian the civilian damage and deaths
and
destruction uh which the the IDF in
general tries to present itself a lot of
the time as the most moral army in the
world um you can see it on social media
because there
are Israeli soldiers that post proudly
videos from Gaza horrible
videos so it can be seen but most people
won't see it in mainstream media and
also don't want to see it because people
want to feel that they are in the right
and that they are
supporting a right cause and that it's
only self-defense and that they don't
have a
choice so
definitely don't see a lot of
it okay thank you so much Sophie all for
taking the time to come and talk with us
appreciate
it thank you so much for having